We've talked a lot about theory,
practices,
how to take good steps
towards building stuff.
Another thing that I really wanted
to share with you guys is actually
tools that when I first was even
introduced to the concept of them,
I think were pretty massively
revolutionary at the company I was at.
And I think that they solve
individual problems, but
they also do a really good job of
showing what DevOps is supposed
to have opinions about and what it's not.
So yeah, we're gonna go ahead and
just jump right into it.
We're gonna talk about
identifying problems, right?
We talked a bit earlier again with
technical documents of how it helps you
break down a problem so that you know if
it's worth doing it or not, essentially.
But once you have a problem,
obviously you can start working on it, but
how do you know what is a problem and what
isn't, how do you, see, this is an issue?
Normally, something that is happening
a lot is something you're hearing a lot.
Our deployments are slow, our pipelines
are slow, our merges are slow, right?
These are the types of problems
that DevOps focuses on.
There are two big problems that I
think any company deals with and,
oops, not that, actually it is
around a lot of this stuff here.
So we are gonna be working
with these services and
tools and stuff like that, but
they all kind of exemplify
a problem as well.
Most companies probably have some
type of cloud account where they
repository resources to.
Most companies probably
have some type of GitHub or
some type of repository location for code
or infrastructures code, stuff like that.
And most companies normally have CI/CD or
at least they try to.
However, it's one thing
to have these things, and
it's another thing to actually wire them
together to solving problems effectively.
And a lot of companies even have
existing tools like Node JS or
Pulumi, or again, CircleCI for CI/CD.
Say, we're a completely brand new company,
and we know that we wanna host an Amazon,
we know that our source
code is gonna be on GitHub,
we know that we wanna use CircleCI or
something like that for CI/CD.
But we don't want to move forward
until we're confident that we have
good opinionations and
standards around the things that
we're gonna put out there, right?
And this is what's going to lead me to our
first two problems that we can work on and
create technical documents around.
The first one is gonna be
standardizing infrastructure, right?
Too many people too often have opinions
on how something should be deployed.
The reality of it is, it should be
a collaboration and an ongoing process.
Frontend doesn't necessarily have
the complete control to say how they
deploy frontend.
They shouldn't, it should be
a collaboration between frontend
infrastructure, again,
IT or anything like that.
And it's actually the same
way with even CI/CD.
There are these bridges that you
have to work with, where, okay,
we have more of a high level opinionation
interesting that we need to make.
However, we also need to make sure that
we're not impacting the developers and
stuff like that.
Let's see here, yep.
So the first thing that I wanna work on is
solving the standardized infrastructure
problem.
And we are gonna create a quick technical
document to kind of help us here, and
I would love you guys assistance with it.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
call this document standardized
infrastructure, right?
S-T-R-U-C-T-U-R-E, if I can spell,
there we go, there is infrastructure.
And our problem is simply going to be we
want to define, that's not the problem,
sorry.
We have no defined patterns or
opinionnations we'll
call them, right, around, I cannot spell.
O-P-I, opinion, we're just gonna
say choices around how we describe
services in our infrastructure.
Infrastructure, S-T-R-U-C-T-U-R-E,
I cannot spell today.
So that's our problem.
We're brand new company and
we have no defined patterns or
choices around how we describe
services in our infrastructure.
The next thing we're gonna do is is we're
gonna say, well, what are these services?
Right, first one is pretty
straightforward, frontends, right?
We need a way of having opinions around
frontends, backends as well, right?
We wanna have a good opinionation
around backends too, right?
And then the next thing we can
do is we can say, okay, well,
we know what these services are,
what do they need?
What do they need, right?
And so for example, if we go to frontends,
this is completely opinionated.
So I'm not going to go super deep into
this just because we also have to
build it.
But we'll say, for example,
we know that frontends will need a bucket,
probably of some type.
We're gonna do static hosting, so
we need a bucket of some sort or
some place to basically
store our flat files, right,
our static files,
I guess is a better word for it.
And then we also need an ingress
of some type, right, some type.
And this can be whether it's Kubernetes,
whatever, it can be anything,
but we just need to make sure
that it's routable essentially.
Outside of that, from a DevOps
perspective, there's not much else, right?
Now, we can add to this, we can say, okay,
well, it needs this or that or whatever.
But when we talk about what we need
from a very simple perspective,
our frontends will just need
a bucket of some sort or
some place to put that data, and
then a way for us to access it, right?
So if we go to backends, oops,
we can kinda do the same thing, right?
Where we can say, okay, for backends,
we probably would want some
type of container, right,
of some sort of if we're gonna be using a
container platform or something like that.
We'll still need that ingress as well,
right, an ingress of some type.
And again,
it can be a bunch of other things.
The reason why I'm showing you this is,
you can already tell there's a separation
between frontends and backends, right?
In frontends, we're talking about,
we wanna save as much money as possible.
We wanna make it so
that we're not spending for
continuous uptime and
things like that, right?
So we're already kind of making
an assumption here that frontends and
backends are intrinsically
different in some regards.
Another thing that we can say here is
that, all of our frontends are gonna
deploy the same way,
that's what this also helps us do, right?
Now, we're not saying, okay, two teams
can deploy frontends differently.
What we're saying is, two teams can
build front ends differently, but
they have to deploy them the same way,
why?
Because that's how we support them, right?
We know how the infrastructure works,
we can easily troubleshoot that
infrastructure and things like that.
And it's the exact same thing for
containers, basically.
If we know where it exists and
we have standards around that,
it makes it a lot easier for
us to be able to do what we need to do.
And really, that's the majority of it.
And so we next can say, well,
what do we need, right?
Because we know what our frontends need,
but what do we need with regards to this?
And the simplest way of putting it is,
we need simple interfaces
that allow us to pull
off the shelf deployments for
specific service types.
Now, we talked about,
what was it called again?
Back, what's the spotify thing again,
sorry?
>> Backstage.
>> Backstage, yeah,
we talked about backstage and
you might go, this sounds like backstage.
That's because backstage is
trying to solve this problem.
Backstage is trying to basically say,
let's standardize a lot of the things that
we do so that we can kinda pull these off
of the shelf solutions instead of
making new solutions every time.
And that's what we need, right?
So we know what our frontends need and
our backends need, but
we also now know what we need, right?
And we can even say, we need a simple
way of managing these resources and
updating them when changed, right?
Outside of that,
most everything is iteration, right?
It's taking a look at it and saying, okay,
well, we need a simple way of making it so
that developers can deploy
a frontend if they need to.
And then we also need a simple way of
managing those resources so that we can.
No mention of technology, no mention of,
you should do this or you should do that.
And as a matter of fact, outside of
just giving this technical document more
information about parameters and
stuff like that,
this is what the developer would get,
realistically, right?